Welcome to
Updating Shared Variables! The game is
going to start to actually take form in this very lecture, so when
you play you will be able to use the arrow keys to navigate around. As you can see,
my location is updating, and the distance to home is also being printed, so
I can actually navigate, on my way home, and get a message saying that I
reached it! How cool is that?! I'm just going to show you, very very quickly, that that is indeed
true and that you'll believe me and follow me into this lecture and
complete, there we go, find home! So let's go home! Let's dive right in!
So the end is so close now! We have the location
shared between our two different methods, and that is the last building block we
need to get this game finally working, in a fun and enjoyable way. It's the
last building block particularly of this pseudocode, this updating
location from home. So I know it's been a bit slow getting
here, you've learned a lot along the way, however, and it's
really quite amazing how you start with a plan like this, very vague,
and suddenly, bit by bit, it all starts to come together, and you're going to see the
results. So it's very exciting how we're going to do this, and the way we're going to do this is
by updating the location. Now I want to talk a little bit about updating variables,
which we've seen how we do it. We've seen how
we, here in the Update () method, have just assigned
a new vector to the location, but I want to show you how you can actually incorporate
the old value of the location, in order to do this, and it's quite simple.
Basically, we have our value in the box here. In this
case, the value is 2 in an integer box, and what we do is, we
take that value out of the box and apply an operation to it, such as add
3. And then, we go and put the value back in the
box and update and replace the old value entirely. Now
how do we do this in code? Well with an integer, for example, we might say
int myInt =
2. Then, in the next line, where we want to
update, what we can say is that my Int + 3, that's
doing this bit here of the addition. Then, how do we
put it back in the box? Well it's as simple as saying myInt =,
and that's putting it in the box again. So we're taking it out of the box, adding 3, and putting it back
in the box. That's a simple idea. Here we have something already,
and then, we increment, it's called, we add to the thing that's already
there, we'll replace it and update it. So that's what we want to do
with location. In fact, that's what we're going to do! So
we can say location = location +, and
then, we can move the location, right. So when we hit the Left Arrow we
move our location over to the left. Now how do we do that? Well we need a new vector,
a vector that points in the left direction. Now let's think about this! If left
is in this direction, so going from right to
left, then we need to think about what our X and Y
represent. Well X represents the horizontal axis and
Y represents the vertical axis, and the positive
direction for X is going to be from left to right, typically, and the positive direction from
Y is going from bottom to top. So what we want is actually
a -X and nothing in Y. So we're going to create a new vector
to represent that. And what's our value going to be? Well let's say we  move just one
unit, so that can be -1.0f and up.
We are going to go, let's just say, 0, we're not going to
move up at all when we hit the Left Arrow. That makes perfect sense! So let's
see this in action! Let's go over to Unity, hit
play, watch our Console,
and see what it's doing! And you notice that, as I hit Left, we are going
Left and Left and Left and Left and Left. OK perfect! So time for
you to try this out for yourself and to update the location. I'd like you to
repeat the process that I've just done, for right, up, and down,
as well. We haven't done up and down before, so that's going to be a little bit of a challenge for you and a little bit of
revision with the key codes. I would like all to see,
can you also share the home location? Well we have already shared the home
location, this has already been done for us. But can you use that
home location, most importantly, with this bonus? Can you print out
the distance to home, rather than printing out the actual location and
giving away, essentially, the whole aim of the game, which is to find your way home. So
pause the video, and have a go at this little challenge!
OK welcome back! Let's tackle this together!
So I do hope you are pausing the video, so try it. The challenge is
the way that you need to do it to learn. OK so I'm
going to remove these prints, we no longer need those, we just need to update these locations
directly. I'm going to remove this, because that's old hat,
and I'm going to copy this line
and copy across, [Sings] blah blah blah dapa dapa doo.
[Sings] Shooby dooby dee. And this time, Right is obviously moving
in the positive direction. I don't have to put a plus sign to indicate the positive direction, that is by
default. So I can copy and paste this and, you know,
copying and pasting is not much fun. We'll learn, in the next lecture, how to avoid copying
and pasting, but for now, I'm going to copy and paste. Just to show you the very basics,
I'm going to do an UpArrow, I'm going to do a DownArrow. Notice how VisualStudio is
helping me whiz through this and just allow me to type out these longer words
very very quickly. Now Up, as I said, is vertical but
it is going from bottom to top, so that is positive.
Zero there, 1...
Now, actually, I don't want to put the f. I want to make this a little bit shorter, so I'm
going to use the integer automatic conversion to do this for
me, like so, and
Down is obviously going to be negative, so let's do that, too.
Oops! Like so! So let's
go back into Unity, check this out!
So now I'm moving around, let's just see if the variable
is being updated in the Console location. Yes it is! I
can change that location using just my keyboard! How cool
is that! Now, what we want to do is update and print
out the " Distance to home: " . Now we've
already got the code that does this, it's right here, so I'm going to copy that over. So let's
ignore the pathTo Home, we no longer want to give the game away.
So we're going to cut this, and I'm
going to paste it, unfortunately, in every if statement, because what we're saying
is: Every time you get to the frame, check your Left Key
is down. If the Left Key is down, then update the location, and then,
update the player on their new distance from home. So that's what we're going to do.
Ah, notice that the pathToHome has not be declared here,
in this Update () method. So we need to copy that across to our cut it
across, because we don't want it anymore in the Start (), it's no longer useful there.
Oops, and I'm going to actually bring it down, just for
ease of copying and pasting, down to here,
because then I can select this whole block, copy it, and paste
it into every if statement. Again with the repetition! Now we don't like repetition
in programming, we want to make the computer do as much work for us as possible.
But, in this case, this is just to show you the verbose
way of doing things, that is the way with many many words,
but, later on, we're going to show you how you can do this very very simply.
OK, so here we are! And now, when I move you
can see that, indeed, my distance is getting further away, and I
can bring it back home by kind of doing a press time error.
And there you go, when I'm home it says you're home, which is
fantastic! So we now have the very skeleton of the game. We can do a little bit of polishing and
refining, but basically, we are there! We are able to print out the distance
to home and,  you know, give it even a different start location.  So if I pause the
game, stop playing the game rather, then I can update
the location. Notice that if you update any of these, while the game is playing,
like so. I create 5... and stop playing, then
those updates are lost, so it's very important that we
set it before. So I'm going to set
the Home Location at location like this,
and if I hit play, then I start to move around, then
it is going to tell me that I am not at home. So I need to
find my way home, try and get as close as possible.
There we go, about 10 away there, and I can
go Down, Up Up Up Up. There we go, I am home! And you can
see all the time the Location here, which is really hidden from the player. The Player would just be
seeing the console in our imagination of the game. So I'm going to save the
main scene, because we have made some modifications to these ConsolePrinter
basic values, default values, and I've saved the file.
Congratulations, you have linked it all together! We've got the outline of the
whole game, so pat yourselves on the back, that is a big big step,
and let's get on to polishing this off and making it nice and presentable! See you in the next lecture!